---
layout: page
title: Download
subtitle: Get vQuery-Free
permalink: /download/
hide_hero: true
---

# vQuery installation and setup

**License Notice:** vQuery-free as it names implies is free to use. Before downloading, please read the license terms and restrictions here: [https://vqueryfree.com/license/](https://vqueryfree.com/license/)

<br>

vQuery runs in a docker container. A container platform is needed to host the application, such as docker or kubernetes.  

Get the image from dockerhub: ***Link will be available starting Sunday, April 25th, 2021***

or

Download the image with the following docker command: ***Link will be available starting Sunday, April 25th, 2021***

There are many ways to set up vQuery, especially in an enterprise context where security, high availability and scalability are needed. In this guide we will focus on the installation of the free version of vQuery which is more suited for personal use. For more information on the differences between the free version and the full version please visit "About" tab.

**Requirements:**

- Operating system: Windows, Linux or Mac OS
- Docker (or any container platform that can run Docker images)
- Computer memory: depends on the size of the files to process. 16Gb is a good start.
- Recommended Web Browsers: Chrome, Edge

**Installation steps:**

- Download and install Docker
- Configure Docker to host Linux containers (if installing on Windows)
- download vQuery image:   ***Link will be available starting Sunday, April 25th, 2021***

**Configure and run vQuery:**

vQuery runs on port 8866 by default.

The following volumes can be mounted:

- one for users workspace: every file generated by the user through the application will be stored in it.
  - ```<directory_or_network_share_on_the_host>:/vQuery```
- Additional volumes can be mounted as shares (read only):
  - ```<directory_or_network_share_on_the_host>:/shares/<share_name>```

If you want to quickly test vQuery you can run:

- ```docker run --name vquery-free -d vquery/vquery-free:latest```

**Connect to vQuery:**

How you connect to vQuery will mostly depend on the location of the machine running vQuery container. In the simplest scenario - running the container on your computer - you can acess the application at the following url:

```http://localhost:8866/```

When connecting to the URL for the first time, you will be prompted to set a new password for the admin user. If you did not map a local folder you will be greeted by a warning asking you to do so.

It is important to map a volume as you may lose your data (data files, queries, connections, credentials) if the container is destroyed.
